public/blogs/react-object-destructuring.mdx, before:

---
title: React Object Destructuring
seoTitle: Stop Object Destructuring in React with TypeScript It's an Anti-Pattern
summary: Is an anti-paterrn with TypeScript, and you should stop using it
isReleased: true
isSequel: false
lastModDate: 2021-12-27T09:15:00-0401
firstModDate: 2021-12-27T09:15:00-0401
minutesToRead: 3
tags:
  - 'react'
  - 'typescript'
  - 'anti-patterns'
---
<C>Do not do this </C>
<Code
  code={`export interface MyComponentProps {
  onClick: () => void;
  onAction: (action: Action) => void;
  state: State;
  title: string;
}

export function MyComponent({
  onClick,,
  onAction,
  state,
  titl,
}: MyComponentProps): ReactElement {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{title}</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
`}
  language="tsx"
  showLineNumbers={false}
/>
<C>And definitely not this </C>
<Code
  code={`export function MyComponent({
  onClick,,
  onAction,
  state,
  titl,
}: {
  onClick: () => void;
  onAction: (action: Action) => void;
  state: State;
  title: string;
}): ReactElement {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{title}</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
`}
  language="tsx"
  showLineNumbers={false}
/>
<C>You're not in JS land anymore, so instead do this</C>
<Code
  code={`export interface MyComponentProps {
  onClick: () => void;
  onAction: (action: Action) => void;
  state: State;
  title: string;
}

export function MyComponent(props: MyComponentProps): ReactElement {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{props.title}</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
`}
  language="tsx"
  showLineNumbers={false}
/>
<C>Here are (13-5) reasons why</C>

<H2>Reason 1: Readability</H2>
<C>
The biggest drawback is that it can obscure the readability of a component's signature. When a function has multiple parameters, it is harder to discern the purpose of each parameter.
This can become even more confusing when ``ReactElement`` is not explicitly defined in an interface or type.
</C>

<H2>Reason 2: Performance</H2>
<C>

Property destructuring can create unnecessary object copies, this heavily impacts performance in large components.
</C>


<H2>Reason 3: Where it came from? What does it represent?</H2>
<C>

In large React components with complex state management. I want to understand where variables originate from. Using property destructuring  obscures the source of a variable, this makes things more confusing that they have to, what is it?  Is it a prop? state? event? parameter? Bird ? I don't know.
</C>


<H2>Reason 3: Reusability with Child Components and Functions</H2>
<C>

Do you really have to rebuild the whole object to pass it to a child component again? No
</C>
<H2>Reason 4: Name Conflicts with local variables</H2>
<H2>Reason 5: Complexity with Deep Nesting</H2>
<H2>Reason 6: No IntelliSense</H2>
<H2>Reason 7: DX</H2>

Commit message:

release `1.81.0` (#228)
* fix: filed build due to double export

* chore(release): v1.80.0

* build(DevContainers): add `tfenv` with aliases

* refactor: move pupl fiction ref to its own component

* refactor: remove unecessary unused env vars

* feat: set blogs time to read

* chore: clearup major typos

* refactor(infra): remove `iam_user` for `s3`

* refactor(infra): remove `iam_user` for `s3`

* fix: a shit ton of typos and missed links

* fix(test): env var missing

* fix: missing links

* feat: add ghirkin format

* chore(release): v1.81.0

public/blogs/react-object-destructuring.mdx, after:

---
title: React Object Destructuring
seoTitle: Stop Object Destructuring in React with TypeScript It's an Anti-Pattern
summary: My eyes hurt when I see it, stop it, it's an anti-pattern
isReleased: true
isSequel: false
lastModDate: 2021-12-27T09:15:00-0401
firstModDate: 2021-12-27T09:15:00-0401
minutesToRead: 3
tags:
  - 'react'
  - 'typescript'
  - 'anti-patterns'
---
<C>Do not do this </C>
<Code
  code={`export interface MyComponentProps {
  onClick: () => void;
  onAction: (action: Action) => void;
  state: State;
  title: string;
}

export function MyComponent({
  onClick,,
  onAction,
  state,
  titl,
}: MyComponentProps): ReactElement {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{title}</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
`}
  language="tsx"
  showLineNumbers={false}
/>
<C>And definitely not this </C>
<Code
  code={`export function MyComponent({
  onClick,,
  onAction,
  state,
  titl,
}: {
  onClick: () => void;
  onAction: (action: Action) => void;
  state: State;
  title: string;
}): ReactElement {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{title}</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
`}
  language="tsx"
  showLineNumbers={false}
/>
<C>You're not in JS land anymore, so instead do this</C>
<Code
  code={`export interface MyComponentProps {
  onClick: () => void;
  onAction: (action: Action) => void;
  state: State;
  title: string;
}

export function MyComponent(props: MyComponentProps): ReactElement {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{props.title}</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
`}
  language="tsx"
  showLineNumbers={false}
/>
<C>Here are (13-5) reasons why</C>

<H2>Reason 1: Readability</H2>
<C>
The biggest drawback is that it can obscure the readability of a component's signature. When a function has multiple parameters, it is harder to discern the purpose of each parameter.
This can become even more confusing when ``ReactElement`` is not explicitly defined in an interface or type.
</C>

<H2>Reason 2: Performance</H2>
<C>

Property destructuring can create unnecessary object copies, this heavily impacts performance in large components.
</C>


<H2>Reason 3: Where it came from? What does it represent?</H2>
<C>

In large React components with complex state management. I want to understand where variables originate from. Using property destructuring  obscures the source of a variable, this makes things more confusing that they have to, what is it?  Is it a prop? state? event? parameter? Bird ? I don't know.
</C>


<H2>Reason 3: Reusability with Child Components and Functions</H2>
<C>

Do you really have to rebuild the whole object to pass it to a child component again? No
</C>
<H2>Reason 4: Name Conflicts with local variables</H2>
<H2>Reason 5: Complexity with Deep Nesting</H2>
<H2>Reason 6: No IntelliSense</H2>
<H2>Reason 7: DX</H2>
