public/business/services.mdx, before:

---
title: Services I Offer
seoTitle: Refresher over of how to use ParamSpec for annotating decorators.
summary: Refresher over of how to use ParamSpec for annotating decorators.
isReleased: true
isSequel: false
lastModDate: 2021-10-02T09:15:00-0401
firstModDate: 2021-10-02T09:15:00-0401
minutesToRead: 2
tags:
  - 'python'
  - 'typing'
  - 'paramspec'
---
<H3>Code Audits</H3>
<C>
I conduct thorough [code audits]() to review and analyze your software code independently. I provide detailed insights, identifying areas for improvement, potential vulnerabilities, and optimization opportunities.
you can learn more [here]().
</C>
<H3>Full Project Development</H3>
<C>
Need a comprehensive [software solution]() ? I can take your project from concept to reality. For most small projects, I work solo, however, if it's more extensive, I invite up to 20 [developers]() with me. 
you can learn about the process [here]().
</C>
<H3>On-Demand Freelance Work</H3>
<C>
If you're currently encountering a roadblock with a specific feature implementation or struggling to resolve a persistent bug in your software? I'm available to assist you
</C>

Commit message:

feat: finish "/business/services" page

public/business/services.mdx, after:

---
title: Hey, We Can Work Together!
seoTitle: Software Solutions.
summary: Software Solutions.
isReleased: true
isSequel: false
lastModDate: 2021-07-02T09:15:00-0401
firstModDate: 2021-07-02T09:15:00-0401
minutesToRead: 2
tags:
  - 'code audits'
---
<H3>Code Audits</H3>
<C>
I conduct thorough <L href="/blog/independent-code-audits">independent code audits</L> to review and analyze your software code, providing detailed insights, identifying areas for improvement, potential vulnerabilities, and optimization opportunities.
you can learn more <L href="/business/code-audits">here</L>.
</C>
<H3>Full Project Development</H3>
<C>
Need a comprehensive software solution? I can take your project from concept to reality. For most small projects, I work solo, however, if it's more extensive, I <L href="/business/glossary#my-team">invite</L> up to 20 engineers to work with me. 
you can learn about the process <L href="/business/full-project-development">here</L>.
</C>
<H3>On-Demand Freelance Work</H3>
<C>
If you're currently encountering a roadblock with a specific feature implementation or struggling to resolve a persistent bug in your software? I'm available to assist you. So <L href="/contact">let's get in touch</L>
</C>
